GoVPN is simple free software virtual private network daemon,
aimed to be reviewable, secure and
@url{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deep_packet_inspection, DPI}/censorship-resistant.

See also this page @ref{О демоне, on russian}.

@itemize

@item
@url{https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/pragmatic.html, Copylefted}
@url{https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html, free software}:
licenced under @url{https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html, GPLv3+}.

@item
Fast strong @ref{PAKE, passphrase authenticated} augmented
@ref{Handshake, key agreement protocol} with zero-knowledge mutual peers
authentication (PAKE DH A-EKE (Diffie-Hellman Augmented Encrypted Key
Exchange)).

@item
@ref{Verifier structure, Augmented authentication tokens} resistant to
offline dictionary attacks. They use CPU and memory hardened hashing
algorithm. An attacker can not masquerade a client even with server
passphrase verifiers compromising.

@item
Encrypted and authenticated @ref{Transport, payload transport}
with 128-bit @ref{Developer, security margin} state-of-the-art
cryptography.

@item
Optional @ref{Encless, encryptionless mode} of operation: no encryption
functions are applied for outgoing traffic, but still confidentiality
preserving encoding. Jurisdictions and courts can not either force you
to reveal encryption keys or sue for encryption usage.

@item
Censorship resistant handshake and transport messages: fully
indistinguishable from the noise with optionally hidden packets length.

@item
@url{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forward_secrecy, Perfect forward secrecy}
property.

@item
Replay attack protection (using one-time MACs and optional
@ref{Timesync, time synchronization} requirement).

@item
Built-in rehandshake (session key rotation) and heartbeat features.

@item
Ability to hide packets length with the @ref{Noise, noise} data.

@item
Ability to hide payload timestamps with @ref{CPR, constant packet rate}
traffic.

@item
Compatible with @url{http://egd.sourceforge.net/, EGD} (entropy
gathering daemon) PRNGs.

@item
Several simultaneous clients support with per-client configuration
options. Clients have pre-established @ref{Identity, identity} invisible
for third-parties (they are anonymous).

@item
Uses @url{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TAP_(network_driver), TAP}
underlying network interfaces.

@item
Can use @ref{Network, UDP and TCP} or HTTP @ref{Proxy, proxies}
for accessing the server.

@item
Fully IPv4 and IPv6 compatible.

@item
Optional built-in HTTP-server for retrieving real-time
@ref{Stats, statistics} information about known connected peers in
@url{http://json.org/, JSON} format.

@item
Server is configured through the @url{http://yaml.org/, YAML} file.

@item
Written on @url{https://golang.org/, Go} programming language with
simple code that can be read and reviewed.

@item
@url{https://www.gnu.org/, GNU}/Linux and
@url{https://www.freebsd.org/, FreeBSD} support.

@end itemize
