@node Client
@section Client part

Except for common @ref{Stats, -stats}, @ref{EGD, -egd} options client
has the following ones:

@table @option

@item -mtu
Expected TAP interface @ref{MTU}.

@item -proto
@ref{Network, Network protocol} to use. Can be either @emph{udp}
(default) or @emph{tcp}.

@item -proxy
Use specified @emph{host:port} @ref{Proxy} server for accessing remote
server.

@item -proxy-auth
Optional @emph{user:password} for HTTP Basic authorization on proxy
server.

@item -remote
Address (@code{host:port} format) of remote server we need to connect to.

@item -iface
TAP interface name.

@item -verifier
Our client's @ref{Verifier}.

@item -key
Path to the file with the passphrase. If omitted, then you will be asked
to enter it in the terminal.

@item -timeout
@ref{Timeout} setting in seconds.

@item -timesync
Optional @ref{Timesync, time synchronization} requirement. If set to
zero, then no synchronization required.

@item -noise
Enable @ref{Noise}.

@item -cpr
Set @ref{CPR} in KiB/sec.

@item -encless
Enable @ref{Encless, encryptionless mode}.

@item -up
Optional path to @ref{Scripts, script} that will be executed after
connection is established. Interface name will be given to it as a first
argument.

@item -down
Same as @option{-up} above, but it is executed when connection is lost,
when we exit.

@end table

Example up-script that calls DHCP client and IPv6 advertisement
solicitation:

@verbatim
client% cat > up.sh <<EOF
#!/bin/sh
dhclient $GOVPN_IFACE
rtsol $GOVPN_IFACE
EOF
client% chmod +x up.sh
@end verbatim
