@node Developer
@unnumbered Developer manual

Pay attention how to get @ref{Sources, development source code}.

@table @asis
@item Nonce and identity encryption
    @url{http://www.cix.co.uk/~klockstone/xtea.pdf, XTEA}.
@item Data encryption
    @url{http://cr.yp.to/snuffle.html, Salsa20}.
@item Message authentication
    @url{http://cr.yp.to/mac.html, Poly1305}.
@item Password authenticated key agreement
    DH-A-EKE powered by @url{http://cr.yp.to/ecdh.html, Curve25519}
    and @url{http://ed25519.cr.yp.to/, Ed25519}.
@item DH elliptic-curve point encoding for public keys
    @url{http://elligator.cr.yp.to/, Elligator}.
@item Verifier password hashing algorithm
    @url{https://password-hashing.net/#argon2, Argon2d}.
@item Encryptionless confidentiality preserving encoding
    @url{http://people.csail.mit.edu/rivest/chaffing-980701.txt,
    Chaffing-and-Winnowing} (two Poly1305 MACs for each bit of message)
    over 128 bits of
    @url{http://theory.lcs.mit.edu/~cis/pubs/rivest/fusion.ps,
    All-Or-Nothing-Transformed} (based on
    @url{http://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~mihir/papers/oaep.html, OAEP} using
    Salsa20 with @url{https://blake2.net/, BLAKE2b-256} based
    @url{http://crypto.stanford.edu/~dabo/abstracts/saep.html, SAEP+}
    checksums) data with 128-bits of feeded random.
@item Packet overhead
    25 bytes per packet. Plus 4128 bytes and noise in encryptionless mode.
@item Handshake overhead
    4 UDP (2 from client, 2 from server) packets (round-trips for TCP).
    264 bytes total payload, 20680 in encryptionless mode.
@item Entropy required
    832 bits in average on client, 832 bits in average on server side
    per handshake. 128 bits for each outgoing packet in encryptionless
    mode.
@end table

@menu
* Verifier structure::
* Transport protocol: Transport.
* Handshake protocol: Handshake.
@end menu

@include verifierstruct.texi
@include transport.texi
@include handshake.texi
