@node Handshake
@section Handshake protocol

@verbatiminclude handshake.utxt

Each handshake message ends with so called @code{IDtag}: it is an XTEA
encrypted first 64 bits of each message with client's @ref{Identity} as
a key. It is used to transmit identity and to mark packet as handshake
message.

If @ref{Noise, noise} is enabled, then data is padded to fill up packet
to MTU's size.

@strong{Preparation stage}:

@enumerate
@item
Client knows only his identity and passphrase written somewhere in the
human readable form. Server knows his identity and
@ref{Verifier structure, verifier}: @code{DSAPub}.
@item
Client computes verifier which produces @code{DSAPriv} and
@code{DSAPub}. @code{H()} is @emph{BLAKE2b-256} hash function.
@item
Client generates DH keypair: @code{CDHPub} and @code{CDHPriv}.
Also it generates random 64-bit @code{R} that is used as a nonce for
symmetric encryption. @code{El()} is Elligator point encoding (and vice
versa) algorithm.
@end enumerate

@strong{Interaction stage}:

@enumerate
@item
@verb{|R + enc(H(DSAPub), R, El(CDHPub)) + IDtag -> Server|} [48 bytes]

@item
@itemize
@item Server remembers client address.
@item Decrypts @code{El(CDHPub)}.
@item Inverts @code{El()} encoding and gets @code{CDHPub}.
@item Generates DH keypair: @code{SDHPriv}/@code{SDHPub}.
@item Computes common shared key @code{K = H(DH(SDHPriv, CDHPub))}.
@item Generates 64-bit random number @code{RS}.
@item Generates 256-bit pre-master secret @code{SS}.
@end itemize

@item
@verb{|enc(H(DSAPub), R+1, El(SDHPub)) + enc(K, R, RS + SS) + IDtag -> Client|} [80 bytes]

@item
@itemize
@item Client decrypts @code{El(SDHPub)}.
@item Inverts @code{El()} encoding and gets @code{SDHPub}.
@item Computes @code{K}.
@item Decrypts @code{RS} and @code{SS}.
@item Remembers @code{SS}.
@item Generates 64-bit random number @code{RC}.
@item Generates 256-bit pre-master secret @code{SC}.
@item Signs with @code{DSAPriv} key @code{K}.
@end itemize

@item
@verb{|enc(K, R+1, RS + RC + SC + Sign(DSAPriv, K)) + IDtag -> Server|} [120 bytes]

@item
@itemize
    @item Server decrypts @code{RS}, @code{RC}, @code{SC},
    @code{Sign(DSAPriv, K)}.

    @item Compares @code{RS} with its own one sent before. Server
    decrypts @code{RS}, @code{RC}, @code{SC} with key @code{K}, compares
    @code{RS} with its own one sent before.

    @item Verifies @code{K} signature with verifier @code{DSAPub}.

    @item Computes final session encryption key:
    @code{MasterKey=SS XOR SC}.
@end itemize

@item
@verb{|ENC(K, R+2, RC) + IDtag -> Client|} [16 bytes]

@item
@itemize
@item Client decrypts @code{RC}
@item Compares with its own one sent before.
@item Computes final session encryption key as server did.
@end itemize

@end enumerate

@code{MasterKey} is high entropy 256-bit key. @code{K} DH-derived one
has 128-bit security margin and that is why are not in use except in
handshake process. @code{R*} are required for handshake randomization
and two-way authentication.

In @ref{Encless, encryptionless mode} each @code{enc()} is replaced with
AONT and chaffing function over the noised data.
