@node Installation
@unnumbered Installation

Possibly GoVPN already exists in your distribution:

@itemize
@item @url{https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/govpn/, AUR}
@item @url{http://www.freshports.org/security/govpn/, FreeBSD ports}
@end itemize

GoVPN is written on @url{https://golang.org/, Go} programming language
and you have to install Go compiler (1.5+ version is highly recommended,
1.4 is the minimal sufficient): @code{lang/go} port in FreeBSD and
@code{golang} package in most GNU/Linux distributions. @emph{Make} (BSD
and GNU ones are fine) is recommended for convenient building.
@url{https://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/, Texinfo} (6.1+ version is
recommended) is used for building documentation. Possibly you also need
to install TUN/TAP interface utilities (depending on your operating
system): @code{uml-utilities} package in most GNU/Linux distributions.

Included required libraries:

@multitable @columnfractions .40 .20 .40
@headitem Library @tab Platform @tab Licence
@item @code{github.com/agl/ed25519} @tab All @tab BSD 3-Clause
@item @code{github.com/bigeagle/water} @tab GNU/Linux @tab BSD 3-Clause
@item @code{github.com/dchest/blake2b} @tab All @tab CC0 1.0
@item @code{github.com/go-yaml/yaml} @tab All @tab LGPLv3 and MIT
@item @code{github.com/magical/argon2} @tab All @tab BSD 2-Clause
@item @code{golang.org/x/crypto} @tab All @tab BSD 3-Clause
@end multitable

Get @ref{Tarballs, the tarball}, check its
@ref{Integrity, integrity and authenticity} and run @command{make}.
@emph{govpn-client}, @emph{govpn-server}, @emph{govpn-verifier}
binaries will be built in the current directory:

@verbatim
% wget http://www.cypherpunks.ru/govpn/download/govpn-2.3.tar.xz
% wget http://www.cypherpunks.ru/govpn/download/govpn-2.3.tar.xz.sig
% gpg --verify govpn-2.3.tar.xz.sig govpn-2.3.tar.xz
% tar xf govpn-2.3.tar.xz
% make -C govpn-2.3 all
@end verbatim

There is @code{install} target respecting @env{DESTDIR}. It will
install binaries, info-documentation and utilities.

@menu
* Prepared tarballs: Tarballs.
* Tarballs integrity check: Integrity.
* Development source code: Sources.
@end menu

@include download.texi
@include integrity.texi
@include sources.texi
